We're hitting 900 megabytes a second for
$20. Making YouTube videos requires
cutting through tons of footage. And to
do so efficiently, it's not exactly a
huge team here. You need a fast
computer, which means I've basically
been the younger sibling that never gets
to play on the Xbox for months now,
except with my personal computer.
Thanks, editor.
Very funny. Fortunately, my shiny new
titanium rig is ready to take its place.
But before old Bessie here can ascend to
a torturous life in an Adobe themed
hell, there's a much bigger problem.
The townhouse I rent only has Cat 5e
Ethernet. It's much better than Wi-Fi,
sure, but for video editing on network
storage, you need fast. Like 10 gig
fast. But Jake, I read the Cap 5B can't
do 10 gig. Sure, that's what the spec
says. But what if I told you in the real
world with a little bit of care, Cat 5e
can easily handle full 10 GB speeds,
even running all the way down to the
home data center. And that you can do
the same in your own house with your own
NAS or pair of computers or whatever
with these Intel 10 gig nicks, which you
can find on eBay for like $10. I bet
you'd like that, huh? You dirty little.
Now, I'm sure your next question is, why
not just put the editing rig right next
to your NAS? Then I don't have to worry
about the networking. You think I
haven't thought of that? Hm. The problem
is the power in here is already totally
maxed. I don't I don't even actually run
this 3D printer. It's just down here
because I ran out of space upstairs. So,
that PC needs to go somewhere else. Like
maybe this bathroom up here. It's got
its own circuit. What for blow drying
your hair? And um I don't usually shower
in here.
It's just that there's no Ethernet in
here for obvious reasons. You know where
there is internet?
Here in the kitchen, right next to this
20 amp electrical outlet,
huh? Don't worry, my partner's not home.
And by the time we're done, it's going
to be too late for them to do anything
about it. Oh god. Wow. That is some uh
workmanship.
Now, you might be wondering why there's
an Ethernet jack in the kitchen. That's
because this is meant for a phone.
That's why there's only two wires in use
here. The rest of them are all wrapped
around. That wouldn't fly for our 10 gig
Ethernet, and neither would this. For
Cat 5e to work at 10 GB speeds, it needs
to be terminated really well. So, the
amount of untwisted pairs you got, oh my
god. Oh, and it's like kinkedked, too.
needs to be like a quarter of an inch,
not um that's like uh 6 in probably. You
sick. For the record, I already
terminated this cable downstairs like 2
years ago or something like that. I just
never made use of it. So, we really only
just have to terminate this side. I am
going to pull a bit back though. Oh. Oh,
he's discovered the hole. You know,
there could be mouses in there.
Can I get in there?
Sorry, landlord.
Canipex. Canipex.
Recognize the colors. Link in the
description. Also down there will be all
the other stuff we featured today. And
while you're down there, get subscribed.
Okay. God. There are two different types
of Ethernet terminations. You can do a
mail jack like this. This is the pass
through type that everyone said I was
psychotic for not using last time when I
did Alex and Andy's internet upgrade. Or
keystone jacks. And this is what we're
going to be using because this is what's
meant to be used when you're installing
it in a permanent location like this.
With our pairs untwisted, stick the
little toolless thingy on. And then we
need to pull the wires into their
correct position, which um there's two
different ways to do it. There's a B
termination and an A termination. Most
of the time people use B nowadays, so
that's what I'm using. And that's what I
did on the other side. If you do the
opposite, you have made a crossover
cable, which unless you have a reason to
need a crossover cable, it's not going
to work very well for you. We're gonna
do B.
>> White, blue into the white blue spot.
Blue into the blue spot. You see the B
there? That means the green goes over
here for a B termination. Boop, boop,
boop. And then the same on this side.
And then just to make sure that the
wires are like really in there because
sometimes they don't quite align super
correctly, I usually just take my pliers
and just just do them like a slight push
into the little spots. We trim off the
extra
and then you stick it in the hole.
And we're not Normally you would put a
cover plate here, but um I neglected to
order one. So she's fine. The wife's not
even going to see it. There's going to
be a giant computer here blocking it
anyways. It's fine.
See, it's mint. Can't even tell.
There's nothing weird about this at all.
I mean, an RTX 5090 in your kitchen. I
like it. Also has a 9800 X3D. The 96 GB
of RAM that I put in the Titanium PC
because, yep, editors get priority. I
guess I don't need 96 gigs of RAM to
play video games, right? What I do need
is my Linux boot drive. O. Oh, that was
very unpleasant.
In goes
the cheapo random Intel SSD that I put
Windows on because to be honest, if I
made my editor use Linux any longer, I'd
probably get murdered. I'm also probably
going to get murdered for this. So, last
but not least, our network card. This is
an Intel X540T.
It's a dualport 10 GB network card. It's
PCIe Gen 2 by8. So, it's important that
whatever slot you plug it into and
whatever computer you're using has at
least a BY4 slot because if you go in a
B1 slot at PCIe Gen 2 speeds, that's
only like 500 megabytes a second. Maybe
that's fine. Usually, the fan on the
inside is like toast or really noisy.
So, I actually removed it and in place
I'm going to stick this cute little
knock to a fan I stole from a 3D
printer. I wouldn't recommend not
running a fan though because when they
overheat, they just disconnect. Let's
stick it in. Woohoo! Look at how
professionally installed this fan is
going to be. It It's janked. But you
basically just need any amount of air
flow to cool these things.
And since I have no idea which cable it
is downstairs, we're going to use this
handy dandy little Klein probe tool. You
just turn it on. It's probing between
800 and 1,000 hertz. Stick it into the
cable and then you use the probe and you
can hear the little song it plays. Let's
go find it. No.
No.
Hey, the system works. This patch panel
is kind of a piece of crap, but it is at
least Cat 6 rated. And I did terminate
it um as tightly as I possibly could.
We'll see if it works at 10 gig speed.
There you can see what a good male
termination is supposed to look like.
It's nice and tight with like barely a/4
in of untwisted pair. Plug that in.
This cable is Cat 6A, so it's uh nice
and thick and shouldn't cause any
problems.
Got to be that one. And now another
termination. Heck, if you still don't
believe that Cat 5e works, consider
this. It's like a 60 ft run from the
garage up to the kitchen and then it's
patched in the garage another like 20 ft
into here. There's going to be loss at
that patch obviously. And then it's also
patched here. That's three separate
connections when you include the patch
cable we're going to put in upstairs.
And uh I guarantee you it's going to
work at 10 gig 100%. I am that
confident. Okay, it's too close. Now
that we've got a 10 gig nick in the
computer, it's patched in the rack. We
can plug in our other side. Now, if you
were just trying to go for the most
basic setup, get a second X540 T2. Stick
it in your NAS if you can, and boom,
you've got a direct 10 gig connection.
You just got to set some static IPs. If
you want to share it with multiple
computers, you don't need a like insane
ubiquity switch like this. You can pick
up something like this Mooker link one I
found on Amazon. It's got six 10 gig
ports. Two of them are SFP, four of them
are RJ45. But what you might also want
to plug into it is today's sponsor, UG
Green, and their new AI NAS. This thing
is crazy. It's got dual 10 gig ports.
You can plug your crazy computer right
into that, no problem. It can support up
to 196 terabytes thanks to its six hard
drive bays. That's good enough for
literally millions of photos, thousands
of movies. This thing has a 14 core
Intel processor with up to 64 GB of
LPDDR5X memory. That good enough to run
local AI models. It's like having your
own private cloud except without the
monthly subscription. With their
universal search, you can use simple
keywords to find whatever you're looking
for across photos, videos, documents.
Like, look, I typed in license and it
found it right away. And with their Ulia
localhosted smart assistant, you can use
natural language commands and
instructions to interact with your
files, like having Ulia summarize long
and complicated documents, or using
smart commands to find movies or songs
you want to listen to without scrolling
through lists of files. Heck, it can
even do voice memos where your NAS
locally transcribes the audio,
summarizes key points, and can even
generate cute little mind maps like
this. And it's fast, too. They've got
support for up to two NVME SSDs, the
dual 40 gig Thunderbolt ports up front.
And they even have an SD card if you
need to ingest media off your camera,
you're filming, you're taking photos,
and if you are, you should be taking
control of your data, too, by checking
out the UG IDX 6011 AIS at the link down
in the description. What are you waiting
for? Just go check it out. It's
genuinely sick. And honestly, I'm
probably just going to use that as my
backup NAS because I do already have
this NAS, which already has an X540 T2
in it. That thing has been in there
probably 5 years and it's just rock
solid. Patch it in and then let's go
turn it on. For remote access to our
computer, I'm going to be using this
GLET Comet Pro KVM. It's very nice. Just
plugs right in like this. HDMI power and
then the USB connection for like the
virtual keyboard and mouse. And then
we've got our 10 gig. Very nicely cable
managed and blue and really matches the
kitchen.
And then we just need power. Green is 10
gig. Yes.
Yeah. You didn't believe me. And I I I
knew it was going to work. I was a
little nervous it wasn't going to work.
And would you look at that? Number 19,
Jake. It's working. Woo.
Okay, let's let's do a file transfer or
something. By default, if you're on
Linux, the X540T2 is just going to work
right out of the box. The driver is
baked into the kernel. On Windows,
however, it is not. So, you have to
download it. And for some reason, Intel
removed the downloads from the X540 T2
product page. So, in order to get
drivers for it, you have to download the
complete driver pack for Intel Ethernet
adapters from their website. Just click
download here. Then, open up device
manager. Find our two missing Ethernet
controllers here. Click update driver.
Browse computer for driver. And then
select the folder we extracted earlier.
Release 31. Click okay. And just make
sure you have include subfolders
checked. Next. Can't verify the
publisher of this driver software.
Install it anyways. We don't care about
that. We just downloaded from the Intel
website. For the other one, same deal.
Update driver. Just click the search
automatically one because it's already
in the driver database. And now we can
test it. Nine G. Well, it's going
between 7 and 8 and 9 GB. That's close
enough for me. I don't think that's a
problem with the network card. I think
that's a problem with the SSD in this
computer being kind of a turd. And um
Windows file copy not being the most
amazing thing ever. But look at that.
We're hitting 900 megabytes a second for
$20. And a RTX 5090 computer. Look, it
works in any computer. Okay? As long as
you have a PCIe slot, that's all you
need. I can believe it works. I was
going to say I can't believe it works,
but I knew that this was going to work.
Try it in your own house. And if you
don't have Cat 5e in the walls, maybe
just run some Ethernet. Now you know how
to terminate it properly, right? Pretty
cool. And then we'll go back the other
way. Boom. Same deal. 800 900 megabytes
a second. Basically 10 gig. It's a
little bit slower the other way. Look, I
told you guys my NAS was being slow. I
need to put the Mac Mini in the rack. I
haven't done that yet. Might as well get
my head start. I might be sleeping here
for a little bit. Is this um is this
okay to be in the kitchen?
>> I don't care. You really want me to say
no?
>> What? This doesn't bother you?
>> No. There's already everywhere. It's not
like it makes that big of a difference.
>> Oh my god. So, there you have it. You
should put an editing rig, a gaming rig,
whatever you want in your kitchen. We
got approval from uh uh the boss, and uh
I think that she can speak on behalf of
all other bosses to say that this is
acceptable. And uh you have your
computer in the kitchen pass now. You're
welcome. And since you owe me a huge
favor now, I'm gonna ask you to get
subscribed, hit the like button, and let
me know down in the comments if you've
ever run 10 gig over Cat 5e. Let me know
how your experience has been because
I've been doing it for a while and now
I'm doing it even more apparently
approved manner.